**Interactive On-Campus Observation: Atmospheric Water Machines**

There are atmospheric water generators around campus, which are machines that dispense drinking water collected from the atmosphere (air). The brand on campus is *Hydrologic* and they are mostly white, looking almost like a mini fridge. The only indication that they may dispense water is a metal grid for collecting water - the white section that protrudes and has the water drip down can easily blend in to the rest of the white machine. Unless someone knows exactly what it is, the machines may be easy to miss, especially if one is looking for a typical metal water fountain attached to a wall, or a plastic water cooler on a stand.

The machines used to require users to touch - not press - the ‘Water’ button for the water to start dispensing, then touch it again to stop. Because of the 2-4 second gap between touching the button and water dispensing, as well as the very finicky nature of the button, it was quite difficult to get it to start, and very difficult to get it to stop. Water bottles often overflowed and the metal catchment cannot contain much water at all. Over the summer, it seems someone went around and reprogrammed the machines so that a user has to hold down the button to dispense water. It works much more intuitively and better now for many - it doesn’t seem like they replaced the finicky buttons themselves, so it is the design and method of interacting with the machine that has been improved. Of course, it also helps that all the machines now include a sign above the button with directions: “HOLD “WATER” BUTTON CONTINOUSLY [sic] TO DISPENSE”. But many machines still have outdated sheets with instructions on top of the machine, so it depends on where a user’s eye is drawn to first. Overall, it is a great idea (supposedly atmospheric machines are better for the environment) but the design issues, as well as the fact that sometimes the machines cannot process the air around it for water, means users sometimes have to turn to other water fountains, which seems impractical.
